Aid Projects Dataset, Version 1.0 for the bachelorthesis of Beat Mueller 'The allocation of Chinese and Indian development finance in Nepal and its influence on local election results'

The Aidprojects Dataset contains all ODA disbursements from India and China in Nepal, reported by Aiddata at William and Mary. For Chinese projects, information is available between 2008 and 2017, for India between 2008 and 2015. Data for the year 2015 was directly collected from the 'MEA Outcome Budget' from the Ministry of External Affairs of India. The project locations are displayed with various levels of precision. Also included are the dataset: 'List of Winning Candidates, Constituent Assembly Election 2064' and 'List of Winning Candidates, Constituent Assembly Election 2070'. 

About the data collection process

First, I extract data on Chinese projects from AidData’s Global Chinese Official Finance Dataset, Version 2.0 (\citealp{custer_tracking_2021}), that are geocoded and match the following criteria: Nepal as recipient; 2008-2017 as commitment year; and ODA-like as flow class. Consistent with the OECD criteria, ODA-like flows aim to promote the economic development and welfare of recipient countries, are concessional in character and convey a grant element of at least. Project data that is verified and released by the Chinese government is not available. Second, I do the same on Indian projects from AidData's Indian Development Finance Dataset, Version 1.0. Here, in contrast to Chinese disbursements, the project data is provided by two major Indian agencies, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Exim Bank. One limitation is that data is only available until 2014. Therefore, I compiled additional information on development projects for the year 2015 from the Outcome Budget 2016-2017 retrieved directly from the Ministry of External Affairs. I only added project information which include a location; an exact amount spent; and matched the ODA definition from above. Mostly, the projects were continuations or follow ups to preceding ones, thus enabling a uniform definition throughout the new dataset. For 2016 and 2017, data is unfortunately lacking, as the Ministry of External Affairs did not anymore publish any precise data concerning its development finance. Taken together, I compiled information on 642 ODA-disbursements, which contain 46 entries for China and 596 for India. Only projects whose locations are identifiable at least at the district level are included in my sample. Thus, I can allocate each entry to a respective district, province and development region of Nepal. In the original datasets, this information was not uniformly displayed or sometimes not correct by confusing district with provinces or locations or vice-versa. In addition, the new dataset also displays information on the title of eacg development project, its sectoral distribution, the respective funding agency, and at minimum one source URL.

For the elction datasets, the Election Commission of Nepal offered detailed election results at the constituency level after each election. For the 2008 election, the 'Election result manual 2065 BS' was published. Accordingly, for the 2013 election, the 'Election result manual 2070 BS' was issued. All existing research on these elections reference to these. However, the manuals are not anymore retrievable from the Election Commission website or from anywhere else, most probably because the website got a complete update. Additionally, several people I contacted from the Election Commission were not able to help me or said that they are not anymore available. Therefore, I tried to find the documents with the help of the 'Internet Archive Wayback Machine', which was successful. I found the documents by searching the following links with the following link: https://www.archive.org/. For 2008: http://www.election.gov.np/reports/CAResults/reportBody.php; for 2013: https://election.gov.np/CA2070/CAResults/. Some of the information the retrieved HTML-datasets offer are the names and parties of all candidates per constituency as well as the share of votes received. For the 2013 CA Election, I translated the names of the politicians and parties to English. To get the number of total votes, I retrieved additional data from the Electoral Atlas published by UNDP for the 2013 CA Election. For the 2008 CA Election, I added all received votes for each candidate which results in the total share of votes. This is needed to calculate the victory margin per district.
To calculate the victory margin for each constituency, I filtered the compiled data for each election to only show the winner (with party alignment to either China or India) and the runner up (with a varying party alignment). Practically, this means that if the first and second most votes were received, for instance, by both communist parties, then the victory margin was not calculated between their candidates but between the first place and the runner up from a 'pro-India' party. According to Chapter 2 of my thesis, the parties considered as 'pro-China' are the Communist Party of Nepal (UML) and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoists). For 'pro-India' alignment, I include members of the Nepali Congress (NC), the Rastriya Prajatantra Party (RPP), and the two Madhesi Parties in the Teraj, the Madhesi People's Rights Forum (MJFN) and the Terai Madhesh Loktantrik Party (TMLP). All other parties are valued as neutral, thus not taking part in the following calculations.Aggregating this numbers, I can create a single measure for the average victory margin per district. This shows comprehensively how competitive each of the 75 electoral districts is. If the result in the dataset is positive, then the elected members of 'pro-China' parties have a higher average victory margin than elected members of 'pro-India' parties in the constituencies of the respective district and vice-versa.
